How can you tell the difference between apples and oranges [show a picture of an apple and an orange]? Well I can take 10 apples and 10  oranges, rate their sweetness, lets call this feature x, and plot it on a numberline like this [show numberline with 10 orange dots nearish the left side and 10 red dots on the right side with some overlap between dots]. I can then draw a line to separate the two groups [show arbrirtrary boundary], but how do i know exactly where to draw this line?

for each object in this space, we should find p(y | x), meaning we should find the probability that a fruit with a value x belongs to class y. Take for example this point on the left, it has a low sweetness so the probability that a fruit with this value of sweetness is assigned to the orange class is high. Similarly, given a fruit has a high level of sweetness, the probability it is assigned to the apple class is very high. We can plot this relationship on the graph like this [show p(y | x) for both classes), it is important to note that the probability that a given x to any class should add up to 1. This equation is called the class posterior probability and to estimate this graph we can used bayes theorem [show bayes]. here p(x | y) is called the class conditional distribution, p(y) is the class prior and p(x) is the data distribution. 

let's see how we can find the values for each of these. the class conditional distribution shows us the distribution of the data of each class, for simplicity lets model each class's sweetness levels as a normal distirbution [show normal distribution]. So ok, lets estimate the class conditional distribution fo apples and oranges using a normal distribution [show two normal distbruiton on the previous graph with the dots with one distribution centered on the left and one on the right]. we can see here that majority of apples have a sweetness around here [show peak of nd] and the majority of oranges have a sweetness around here [show peak of other nd].

 next we find the class priors p(y), this usually can be calculated with the data we already have, since we have 10 apples and 10 oranges, the p(apple) will be 10 / 20 or 0.5, estimated from our sample w . and finaly the data distribution p(x), since this doesn't depend on the classes we are looking at and we are just comparing which class has the highest posterior, this doesn't change which one wins but we can calculate it by summing the class condition distribution multiplied byt he class prior for every class [show equation]. 

so we end up with this graph [show graph]. at any x, we can see which class has the highest class posterior probability and we assign the object to the highest class and can draw the decision boundary where the graphs intersect, anything to the left of this boundary will be assigned an orange and to the right an apple. well what about the parts of the graph that cross over to the other side of the boundary (highlight those parts of the graph), points in these parts of a chance of being from the orange class but are assigned to the apple class. these show the error in our boundary, if we add these up we get the classficiation error [show equation]. The Bayes error is the smallest classification error achievable and it tells us the theoretical limit of how well the two classes can be separated."