In 2016, a computer program called AlphaGo defeated the world champion Lee Sedol in a board game called Go. [show alpha go and the guy]
But how can a computer actually know which move is the best one to be played?

The algorithm AlphaGo used was called MCTS or monte carlo tree search [show mcts which explands to show the full name], 
well actually it used a more complex version of this algorithm but lets explore the basic idea with a game of tic tac toe.

say the tic tac toe board looks like this, and it is the computers turn to make a move.
the computer stores the current position and paths it has explored in a tree format [show tree with current state with 1 branch of depth 2 lets say and another of depth 1].

MCTS works in four steps: selection, expansion, simulation, and backpropagation.

we first start with selection, where starting from the root our current position, we select a child node until we reach one 
that hasnt been fully expanded [show choosing hte depth 1 branch]. The way we select a particular node is called a heuristic.

next we do expansion, by trying out an action on the child state, say we want to see what will happen if we put a cross on the top left
[show action and expantion of branch with the board now having a cross on the top left]

so this is the action we want to explore, and we want to find out that if we made this move, would we win or not, so we run
a simulation, where we play out a bunch of games with randomised moves till we have reached a terminating state, in this case
either a loss or a win. 

say in our first simulation we got a win, this is good but it isnt reliable to believe just one simulation so we do multiple simulations
lets say out of N simulations, we won 75% of them. great we can then write the reward of this node as 75 for example.

so we know that if we make this action we get a reward of 75, lets tell the nodes above it in the path this so they can update
their values, this is called backpropagation [show going up and increasing value since we win a lot in this case]. 

great so we explored a new move and if we compare this path 
and the other we can see that the reward for this path is higher than the other, 
so the computer should favor this move. keep in mind, real implementations don't just look at win rate, they also factor in how many times
a path has actually been explored, since a node we've only tried once could just be a lucky win.


in theory, the computer would compute these values for all possible moves but since we dont have that much time and compute power
the computer need to balance exploring new untried moves with exploiting the moves we already know are promising.

this is called the exploration-exploitation tradeoff, and it shows up everywhere in reinforcement learning, not just MCTS